---
author:
- James Milne
date: '2023-07-03'
geometry: margin=20mm
include-before:
- '`\newpage{}`{=latex}'
papersize: a5
title: The Tumultuous Tours of Ivy Green
toc: true
---

`\newpage{}`{=latex}

-   [The Skies of Earth](#the-skies-of-earth)
-   [TODO](#todo)

```{=latex}
\begin{center}
```
```{=latex}
\text{* * *}
```
```{=latex}
\end{center}
```
`<p class="pagebreak">&#42; &#42; &#42;</p>`{=html}

```{=latex}
\pagebreak
```
```{=latex}
\newpage
```
Copyright (c) 2023 James Milne.

All rights reserved. This is a work of fiction. Any resemblance to
persons living or dead is purely coincidental.

```{=latex}
\begin{center}
```
```{=latex}
\text{* * *}
```
```{=latex}
\end{center}
```
`<p class="pagebreak">&#42; &#42; &#42;</p>`{=html}

```{=latex}
\pagebreak
```
```{=latex}
\newpage
```
![The Tumultuous Tours of Ivy
Green](cover.png){style="width: 80%; margin: auto;"}

```{=latex}
\begin{center}
```
```{=latex}
\text{* * *}
```
```{=latex}
\end{center}
```
`<p class="pagebreak">&#42; &#42; &#42;</p>`{=html}

```{=latex}
\pagebreak
```
```{=latex}
\newpage
```
Originally written for Camp Nanowrimo, 2023.

```{=latex}
\begin{center}
```
```{=latex}
\text{* * *}
```
```{=latex}
\end{center}
```
`<p class="pagebreak">&#42; &#42; &#42;</p>`{=html}

```{=latex}
\pagebreak
```
```{=latex}
\newpage
```
The Skies of Earth
==================

There are more stars in the sky, than grains of sand on the beaches of
the Earth.

To some, that platitude offers awe and wonder. To others it offers the
fear of insignificance. The truth of it though, is a set of
possibilities so startling and strange as to be beyond imagination.

Yet, absolutely none of that was of any particular help to the woman
falling through the skies of the Earth, wearing nothing but an
irritatingly skimpy maid's dress.

Granted, Ivy didn't usually wear clothes. Her natural foliage was enough
to politely cover up, and polyester was something she found rather
itchy. The clothes of most species just was not to her tastes.

Yet, she couldn't really afford to visit other worlds, so she had agreed
to wear a uniform for the rich assholes who could. Cleaning up during
the morning shift, to be able to experience the stars at night, had been
the plan.

Of course, nothing ever went to plan for Ivy.

Her first day on board the cruiseliner had started off simply enough. A
gathering of the various maids and staff, whilst their bosses gave a
large and reeling speech about how when they were on-duty, the customer
might as well be a god and everything that they wanted must be met -
before they asked for it.

Some of the other maids smirked at that, being from races that could
hear your thoughts. For herself, Ivy found that a little invasive. She
knew they couldn't help it, but her own forms of telepathy came with a
choice. She needed to be touching something living, and open to
receiving its impulses, before she heard its base desires.

She wasn't the only foliage-based creature aboard, of course. She
counted two others of her kind, and three more of a
different-but-related species. That was the wonders of the universe. You
never had to be alone, and never had to be without understanding.

Ivy listened to her duties being handed out, gave a curtsy, and headed
out to one of the decks. This one was all about water, which didn't
actually suit her all that much.

Everyone assumed that greenery wanted to hang out where it was wet, so
that they wouldn't be thirsty. It was a kind-hearted thought, but
altogether wrong. As well as getting easily thirsty, greenery also
easily drowned. Overwatering was an easy thing to happen.

Thankfully, as the maid, she only needed to clean up the piles of
clothing that inevitably appeared by the sun-bathing beds, and the
pools. From guests who had less sense than propriety.

From there, she quickly moved towards the showers, so that no one could
accidentally bump her into one of the pools.

She found more than one couple giggling away together, skipping their
stalls and marking them to do later, before scrubbing down the others.
Her leaves folded around her arms, and she set her mouth into a stubborn
frown, as she scrubbed away with metallic cloth at the muck that somehow
got left behind.

Mud entrenched around the drains, blood or worse cooked onto the walls
in a process she did not particularly want to imagine. And of course,
far too many other bodily liquids, too.

Ivy snuffed moss up her nose to block out the smells, and worked hard
and rigorously. She was here to enjoy her getaway, and that couldn't be
done if she was dismissed from her position.

As she moved from one stall to the next, leaving behind nothing but
shiny wood and glistening tiles, the voices of the guests carried up all
around her. The myriad of languages was dazzling, and she'd never really
bothered to learn anything but the most universal of the vocal
languages.

Spoken language seemed like such a cludge to her, when compared to the
gorgeous complexity of her musk. Sonorific nonsense, versus the
all-embracing speech that went right into the nervous system of the
listener.

There were businessmen, proclaiming their wealth to their partners,
impressing their self-worth upon the other, as if that were somehow an
arousing sort of thing. In their position, Ivy would have been talking
about her three hearts, and how they beat in perfect synchronicity with
the partner. Romance won far more than pride.

There were young mistresses, completely lost in awe, and speaking such
tiny and shy words... Whilst their stank told Ivy that they were bored,
and just going through the motions for the payoff. Sometimes a literal
one, but to her confusion, some of the women just wanted the man
physically.

Yet, in so much shallowness, Ivy did find one or two couples, who were
actually couples. Their scent, their breathing, and their speech, was
all locked into the other person, and how very much they adored them.
Love, united in the freedom of a getaway such as this.

That sent shivers down her back, and made her flowers threaten to open
up.

She cleaned away, rubbing raw her gentle green hands. Losing the
patterns of her hands in the soap, and erasing her fingerprints in the
basic strength of the chemicals that were meant for a sturdier race than
her own.

It was midday by the time she'd finished with the bathrooms, and was
just heading out by the pools again, when someone was looking around
frantically, and walked right into her.

Ivy gave a squeal as she fell backwards, all her flowers bursting open
in an explosion of yellow pollen, before she hit the water.

The man who had walked into her was dressed in a black flight-suit, with
a black helmet, and didn't even seem to notice he'd walked into anybody
- too preoccupied in his search.

Ivy floated desperately, trying to kick and rotate herself, so she could
get to the ladder to pull herself out of the water. However, the clothes
on her soaked in the water, and dragged down with a weight that she just
had never tried to swim with, before.

Her people were great at floating, shit at swimming.

Ivy sank.

A great big bubble came up from her skin, and from her mouth, before
popping onto the surface. She felt the water rush into her mouth, as she
stretched up her hands, and her feet fell down.

Panic hit her, and Ivy squealed again - except this time it just turned
into a start of bubbles, followed by her inhaling a huge mouthful of
water. It was all involuntary.

She tried to push herself upwards, arms trying to carve through the
water, wiping and dragging away at it, with limbs that were just so very
heavy with the water they were absorbing.

The water felt like a thousand hands pulling her down, refusing to let
her go.

She couldn't let herself drown in a pool on a cruiseliner, wearing a
ridiculous maid's dress.

A hand grabbed the edge of one of her leaves, yanking like a bolt of
lightning as her fragile nerves screamed in absolute agony, shooting
right through every part of her nervous system.

She tried to scream again, but there was no air left for it. Her mouth
hung open, and her eyes watered, as someone dragged her by the leaf
attached to her left arm. Dragged her up to the surface, and then onto
the unforgiving concrete floor.

They rolled her quickly onto her side, and Ivy gave a weak and timid
little cough, water popping and spewing forth for just a moment.

The rest of her lay flat against the floor, too heavy and weak to lift,
as the water gently began to run down her axils, feeding out into the
midribs and out through the veins.

She lay there, a great big sopping mess, not sure if she was still
drowning.

The one who had rescued her gave a heavy sigh, and she heard them speak,
"Well, I don't have time for this. Let me know if you don't die."

With that, Ivy was left incredulous as the other person walked away, and
exactly nobody cared if she had drowned or not. She was just a wet
towel, to any of them. Something to leave for another servant to take
care of.

She very nearly burst into tears as she lay there, broken.

```{=latex}
\begin{center}
```
```{=latex}
\text{* * *}
```
```{=latex}
\end{center}
```
`<p class="pagebreak">&#42; &#42; &#42;</p>`{=html}

```{=latex}
\pagebreak
```
```{=latex}
\newpage
```
Ivy was still shaking when she finally managed to stand upright. A quick
twist of her frail leaves towards the nearby star told her that she had
lain there for almost two hours, and no one had bothered to so much as
speak to her.

She expected about that much care to come from up above if she didn't
manage to finish off her duties.

She felt humiliated, both by nearly drowning, and that she mattered so
very little to all of the guests. She would have thought that at least
one of them would ask if she was okay, even if they didn't feel the need
to help.

Ivy moved back to the bathrooms, dripping wet as she did, leaving behind
little footfalls of water, tinged a little bit pink from her flowers'
pollen. Those she'd need to clean on her way out.

In the bathroom, she went straight for the hairdryers. A gust of warm
and stale air quickly helping to dry her out, and remove any of the risk
of drowning. She shook her green locks as she waved it over her face,
cracking her lips and parching her throat, but probably saving her life.

Delayed Drowning was nothing to joke about.

With her life possibly saved, and her stomach grumbling angrily, she
gave a last check of the bathroom, dried a few new spots, and then
headed out. Walking quickly by the pools with a flower-opening sort of
anxiety, before heading up one level to the lounges.

There, she found two other maids already in the course of things. They
shot her an angry glare for being so very late, but she did her best to
show them up. Her hands were fast, and accurate, as she wiped away at
every surface, moving at a pace that those two couldn't match.

Ivy was used to cleaning up things. She had never had to wear such a
ridiculous uniform on her home planet, but she had been a maid there,
also. She'd lied to herself, saying that it was only temporary whilst
she studied away in the conglomerate, but the truth...

The truth was, that there was no room for a student of antiquities.
Science received little funding, and history even less. What was the
point of a historian, in a world where memories are passed on to each
and every child? She could remember being her great-great grandfather,
she didn't need to examine his fossilised leaves to work out what he
did.

Ivy disagreed with it. Children only inherited memories up until their
own birth. There were large gaps, where so many accomplishments took
place. But being an upstart that disagrees with everyone else, doesn't
mean that anybody will ever listen to you.

"Hey, watch it!" One of the guests yelled at one of the other maids, and
then Ivy's jaw dropped as the man actually backhanded the face of the
woman.

The maid hit the ground, and Ivy found a vine shooting out of her wrist
and into the cracks between the tiles of the floor. She yanked herself
across the distance, and crouched over the other woman, seeing a bright
red mark on their fleshy cheek.

She looked at them with big and round eyes, whispering, "Are you okay?"

As she said it, she felt a bony hand smack the back of her own head. She
went instantly dizzy, the world swaying around her. Ivy shook her head,
blinking several times, and looked up incredulously at the guest - who
was saying something to her, but she couldn't really make it out.

What she could tell, was that he had just assaulted two of the cruise's
maids, and seemed to think that wasn't just fine and dandy, but the
right way of things.

Ivy rolled her jaw and stood up slowly, "Sir, return to your seat."

"You say please!" He roared at her, spittle flying. "Get fuck way out of
me be!"

His skill with the basic tongue was about as good as his manners. She
didn't usually hold someone's language skills against them, afterall,
she was a historian. But she also didn't usually let people go around
hitting anybody, left or right.

She had an intense desire to open up some of her flowers on this idiot.

Ivy's foliage gathered in tightly about her, the leaves wrapping around
and reinforcing her more delicate skin. She flashed a smile that was
suddenly full of a great many white thorns. "Sir. Return. To. Your.
Seat."

He slapped her.

Except this time, reinforced as she was, Ivy's head didn't so much as
turn. The man screamed and yanked back his hand, grabbing his wrist and
staring at his palm. A dozen black little thorns standing up as white
blood began to pool gently around them.

Ivy rolled her jaw, "Sir. If you would take a seat, then one of us will
be by in a moment, to treat and bandage your wound. We cannot have you
spreading blood around the deck, however. So, for your own safety,
please take a seat."

The man stared at her, and then still angry and muttering, walked to a
nearby sunbathing seat and sat down awkwardly on the side of it.

Ivy spun to the other maid, loosening her leaves and grinning with an
empty mouth. She reached down and helped them to stand up slowly.

The other woman shook her head, "What the hell did you just do? You
can't attack a guest!"

"Did I? I don't remember hitting him." Ivy grinned broadly.

The other woman let out a shocked half-laugh, staring over at the man,
and shaking her head. "This... This is going to bring down so much shit,
from on high."

Ivy shrugged, "Maybe. But no one deserves to get hit. We're servants,
not property."

"I don't think Management sees it that way."

She leaned forward and licked the woman's red cheek, "Sorry. Just a bit
of ointment. Nothing sexual. I should have asked first, shouldn't I?"

The other woman let out a small giggle, "Okay. I'm going to be rude,
now. Never met anything like you before. Where are you from, bub?"

"Plantatio." She sighed heavily, "Don't laugh at the name."

"Huh. Never been." The woman replied.

She shrugged, "Lots of people like me, there. We like moist soil, warm
sun, and those little fertiliser pellets that always seem to be sold out
at the canteen. Name is Ivy."

"Maureen." The other replied, "I'm a Bovkuo. So, you'll see lots of
guests snickering and asking me for milk. Jerks. I don't get udders
until I get pregnant, and if I have a say in it, that is never going to
happen."

"Oh. Ace?" Ivy said in surprise.

"No! Just no kids." Maureen laughed at her.

The two maids then became very aware of a crewmember standing nearby,
tapping a foot impatiently, and staring at the two of them, rather
angrily.

Ivy gulped, "Uh... It was -"

"Don't want to hear it, weed." The man snapped, "Both of you, back to
work."

Thorns sprang up across her skin at the speciest remark, but Ivy showed
a little self-control, and moved back to where she had been dusting the
deck. She removed used glasses and plastics, whilst shooting repeated
glares to the rude man.

Even more insulting, he stayed. Standing and watching the three of them,
as if they didn't know how to do their jobs.

The full two hours of cleaning the deck, the man watched her.

```{=latex}
\begin{center}
```
```{=latex}
\text{* * *}
```
```{=latex}
\end{center}
```
`<p class="pagebreak">&#42; &#42; &#42;</p>`{=html}

```{=latex}
\pagebreak
```
```{=latex}
\newpage
```
The end of her shift did not come quickly enough for Ivy.

Her leaves were just about dragging on the deck, when she started
stumbling towards the maid's deck, and her assigned room. She was
yawning, and craving some more rays of sunlight, but she knew that what
she needed most was to lie in a hammock and pretend the world didn't
exist.

Entering the cramped room, she found to her horror that it had no
windows, and to her annoyance, that two other women were sharing it with
her. Two of them were lying asleep in their bunk on one side of the
room, whilst her special-request hammock lay on the other.

Ivy ran a finger through the soft soil, guaging it's current moistness
and finding it a little dry for her tastes, but losers couldn't be
choosers. She emptied a water bottle over the top, and then climbed in
and tossed her maid's outfit to the floor below.

She cracked another yawn, scrunched her toes down into the dirt, and
then folded her leaves in all around herself. Becoming a little bulb of
green, as she reached out for that sleep.

"Oh, hey! It's a plant!" One of the other women sat up excitedly.

Ivy grumbled under her breath and tightened in her foliage.

"A plant? The devil be that you talking..." The other woman trailed off.

"She's really a plant." The first woman said, again.

"Darn, I be blowed." The other answered.

There was a soft shuffle, and then the heavy clunk of something solid
hitting the deck. The hooves were noisy, even as the owner tried to be
dainty, and walked in closer to her.

Ivy could see their shadow through her bulb, as they peered down at her
with an insulting curiosity.

Some species really did not have a concept of personal space.

"I've never seen one that can cacoon, before." The one standing over her
said.

The other gave a groan, "You being o' the weird about this, Talia.
Cannnot you give her a little breathing room?"

"I wonder if she does breathe...?" Talia said airily, "You know, I dated
a Vapir once. He didn't breathe at all! Waking up in the middle of the
night, curled around something not breathing, now that was one way to
freak out your new girlfriend."

"Tal." The other voice said more firmly, "Girl be exhausted. Either give
her some room, or be giving her the whole room."

The woman clonked and thudded back to the bunkbed, sighing heavily, "I
just wanted to meet her."

Ivy cracked open her bulb guiltily, sitting up and rubbing at her eyes,
"It's Ivy."

"Ivy? Like the plant?" Talia said in surprise, looking over at her.

She shrugged, "Talia? Like the dew?"

"Wow. No one knows what my name means." The bovine woman stared at her
in shock.

Ivy gave a small shrug, "I um... I studied history. When I became a
maid, instead."

"We all given up something." The other said, and made Ivy stare a
little. She hadn't really noticed them, on her way in. They had a bright
red leathery skin, and three jagged horns poking out of their forehead,
but to her surprise, no tail.

Talia grinned down at her excitedly, "So... You're a plant?"

"Tal!" The other snapped, "You being o' rude!"

Ivy shook her head and yawned, "Yes. I am foliage. Sapient plant, if you
want the term most scientists use, but... It's pretty insulting. We're
people. Just... People. I'm Ivy, and you should call me Ivy."

"Do your people have a family name? Or tribe, forest, or something?"
Talia ploughed on, not really hearing Ivy's tone to drop it and leave
her alone.

"Ivy Green." She said testily.

"No way. That's... Hilarious!" The bovine burst out laughing and fell
backwards onto her bunk.

The devil woman stood up from the lower bunk, carefully selected one of
the hairs on Talia's leg, and then yanked it sharply.

Talia squealed and curled into a ball against the wall of the tiny
cabin. "Desdemona!"

"Wow. That's a mean name." Ivy said, too tired for politeness.

The red-skinned woman grinned over at her, showing off four enormous
fangs. "Ill-fated. It doesn't be speaking o' me, but anybody who be
speakin' at me."

Ivy nodded nervously.

Talia shuffled up, leaning against the wall and holding both her legs,
"Well, I'm super-excited! This is my first tour. Hate being a maid, and
everyone pinching my butt, but I'm actually near another planet!
Apparently they're doing drops to the surface, for us, tomorrow!"

"I think mine is in a couple days." Ivy replied, "I think I'm getting a
night run? I'm on the early day shift. Up in time for the cockerel to be
annoyed at waking up."

"What is... Cockerel?" Desdemona asked, furrowing her black eyebrows.

Ivy frowned, "A local bird. It is often seen crowing loudly, at the
sunrise. I think it is also usually male, but sometimes the females also
crow?"

Talia grinned broadly, "Oh! I wanna meet one of those! Do they let you
pat the animals? How many tours have you done here?"

"N-none?" Ivy became shy, "Um... I know... History stuff. This is my
first tour."

"My second tour, but first be to Pegasus. Never been Earth, before."
Desdemona stated.

"They have humans, here." Ivy found herself saying, "A tribal species,
that is spread wide and far. They have a lot of economic upheavals, and
still have national wars."

"War, between nations?" Talia stared, "But... That'd make everyone poor.
You can't have war, without recession. Or even depression! What idiot
would go to war?"

Ivy sighed, "Some people would rather burn the world, if they can't own
the world."

"That's gross."

Desdemona shrugged, "Some worlds always at war. My people fight, and
never not. It is a way of things."

Both women looked at the woman in shock and confusion.

Ivy shook her head, "Anyway... Um... My first shift? I need to sleep.
And then grab some sunlight before the guests get up, again."

"We should be o' sleeping." Desdemona agreed with a nod, "I have first
shift tomorrow. Assigned to asteroid mining."

"I'm on lifeguard duties." Talia pouted, "I wanna be with you two!"

"Perhaps we find Earthbound vacation on together?" Desdemona suggested.

Ivy wasn't sure about this. She felt like she was having two friends
suddenly forced on her. On the other hand... She'd never quite managed
to make friends before.

"Tomorrow." She managed, and crawled back down into her blossom.

```{=latex}
\begin{center}
```
```{=latex}
\text{* * *}
```
```{=latex}
\end{center}
```
`<p class="pagebreak">&#42; &#42; &#42;</p>`{=html}

```{=latex}
\pagebreak
```
```{=latex}
\newpage
```
TODO
====

Humans were actually something Ivy knew far too much about.

She'd written an entire dissertation on the pre-galactic race, and how
it seemed that they had a natural barrier to joining the rest of the
civilised world. Every single time that they appeared to find an
economic and political balance, and started to look towards the stars,
they would suddenly collapse into war and hatred.

It was a fascinating, and altogether disturbing, topic of conversation.

At least, it was to her.

When Talia was munching on some grass and waking everyone up that
morning, Ivy got the feeling that when the woman asked if anyone knew
what the humans were like, she probably wasn't asking for a technical
analysis of their political history.

"I think they knowing mine." Desdemona stated lightly.

Ivy didn't know if that was true. The humans did have a considerable
number of theologies, any one of which might possibly refer to third
contact, in either an official capacity, or a tour messing around with a
less advanced society, but Ivy just didn't see it.

The resources of the planet were altogether basic. They used a primitive
form of atom smashing that required so much room it covered several
countries, and so much power that it could never really be justified.
Without access to the elements like TODO, that were required for
effective spaceflight, what could anyone want with them?

```{=latex}
\begin{center}
```
```{=latex}
\text{* * *}
```
```{=latex}
\end{center}
```
`<p class="pagebreak">&#42; &#42; &#42;</p>`{=html}

```{=latex}
\pagebreak
```
```{=latex}
\newpage
```
